README.md, before:

# README

## Introduction ##

This application was made for Dr. Lightfoot, a Computer Science professor at Texas A&M University. The purpose of this application is to store information about all of Lightfoot's students, so he can create more personalized and genuine recommendation letters.

## Requirements ##

This code has been run and tested on:

* Ruby - 3.0.2p107
* Rails - 6.1.4.1
* Ruby Gems - Listed in `Gemfile`
* PostgreSQL - 13.3 
* Nodejs - v16.9.1
* Yarn - 1.22.11


## External Deps  ##

* Docker - Download latest version at https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop
* Heroku CLI - Download latest version at https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/heroku-cli
* Git - Downloat latest version at https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git

## Installation ##

Download this code repository by using git:

 `git clone https://github.com/your_github_here.git`


## Tests ##

An RSpec test suite is available and can be ran using:

  `rspec spec/`

## Execute Code ##

Run the following code in Powershell if using windows or the terminal using Linux/Mac

  `cd your_github_here`

  `docker run --rm -it --volume "$(pwd):/rails_app" -e DATABASE_USER=test_app -e DATABASE_PASSWORD=test_password -p 3000:3000 dmartinez05/ruby_rails_postgresql:latest`

  `cd rails_app`

Install the app

  `bundle install && rails webpacker:install && rails db:create && db:migrate`

Run the app
  `rails server --binding:0.0.0.0`

The application can be seen using a browser and navigating to http://localhost:3000/

## Environmental Variables/Files ##

If you want to duplicate this application locally, you will need to set up Google OAuth for user login. Instructions can be found here: https://medium.com/@adamlangsner/google-oauth-rails-5-using-devise-and-omniauth-1b7fa5f72c8e. When setting up your own Google OAuth make sure to save the following environmental variables:

`GOOGLE_OAUTH_CLIENT_ID`
`GOOGLE_OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET`

and save them into your development.rb file


## Deployment ##

** Add instructions about how to deploy to Heroku


## CI/CD ##

We use github actions to run the gems rubocop, brakeman, and rspec.

## Support ##

Admins looking for support should first look at the application help page.
Users looking for help seek out assistance from the customer.

Commit message:

Updated Readme to have deployment instructions.

README.md, after:

# README

## Introduction ##

This application was made for Dr. Lightfoot, a Computer Science professor at Texas A&M University. The purpose of this application is to store information about all of Lightfoot's students, so he can create more personalized and genuine recommendation letters.

## Requirements ##

This code has been run and tested on:

* Ruby - 3.0.2p107
* Rails - 6.1.4.1
* Ruby Gems - Listed in `Gemfile`
* PostgreSQL - 13.3 
* Nodejs - v16.9.1
* Yarn - 1.22.11


## External Deps  ##

* Docker - Download latest version at https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop
* Heroku CLI - Download latest version at https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/heroku-cli
* Git - Downloat latest version at https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git

## Installation ##

Download this code repository by using git:

 `git clone https://github.com/your_github_here.git`


## Tests ##

An RSpec test suite is available and can be ran using:

  `rspec spec/`

## Execute Code ##

Run the following code in Powershell if using windows or the terminal using Linux/Mac

  `cd your_github_here`

  `docker run --rm -it --volume "$(pwd):/rails_app" -e DATABASE_USER=test_app -e DATABASE_PASSWORD=test_password -p 3000:3000 dmartinez05/ruby_rails_postgresql:latest`

  `cd rails_app`

Install the app

  `bundle install && rails webpacker:install && rails db:create && db:migrate`

Run the app
  `rails server --binding:0.0.0.0`

The application can be seen using a browser and navigating to http://localhost:3000/

## Environmental Variables/Files ##

If you want to duplicate this application locally, you will need to set up Google OAuth for user login. Instructions can be found here: https://medium.com/@adamlangsner/google-oauth-rails-5-using-devise-and-omniauth-1b7fa5f72c8e. When setting up your own Google OAuth make sure to save the following environmental variables:

`GOOGLE_OAUTH_CLIENT_ID`
`GOOGLE_OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET`

and save them into your development.rb file

Similarly you will need to set up an aws connection to save images onto the application. You will need the following environment variables to proceed with that:

`AWS_ACCESS_KEY`
`AWS_SECRET_KEY`

The final environment variable is the email used to access the application

`EMAIL_SECRET`


## Deployment ##

To deploy the app on your heroku account - 
1. Fork this GitHub repository into a repository of your own making
2. Create a new Heroku Pipeline
3. Connect your forked repository to your heroku account
4. Create a new app under production from your connected GitHub repo
5. Configure the environment variables listed above
6. Build and release the application

For more detailed instructions on automatic deployment follow the instructions located at: https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/github-integration

If you rather deploy manually you can follow the instructions located at: https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/git

## CI/CD ##

We use github actions to run the gems rubocop, brakeman, and rspec.

## Support ##

Admins looking for support should first look at the application help page.
Users looking for help seek out assistance from the customer.
